# Theme

The premise of The Elm Architecture is the ability to build robust and reliable applications: applications that don't fail or break easily. Building a reliable structure requires identifying the failure points of that structure and accounting for them. When it comes to web applications, many problems come down to the correct handling of data and syncing it with the user interface. Data can have many failure points whether it is a failure when being retrieved, a failure when being processed from one form to another or failure when assuming the data to be available and using it when in fact it is not. To account for these problems, we will spend a lot of time discussing **data modelling** and ways to encode the data using types with the help of the powerful type-system of F# while having the compiler at our backs.

The pacing of book is *deliberately* slow because learning front-end development can often be overwhelming. That is why each chapter is divided into bite-sized sections that are hopefully easy to understand on their own. These sections include working small samples to demonstrate the various concepts. As you progress through the book, the concepts start to become more clear as we keep expanding upon the things we learn along the way.

Some parts of the book are *opinionated* and do not necessarily follow the tutorials and guidelines you have potentially read before. However, this is not to say that you should follow follow my advice and forget what you already know, it is in fact the opposite: my goal is that you learn a lot and gain more experience to draw your own conclusions and understand why one approach is better than the other. That is why I will try my best in explaining my *train of thought* when going through the examples and the way they are implemented.